[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome to the Gene
Keys, luminous codes woven
into your very DNA,
waiting to be remembered.
From the timeless E
chain to the double helix
structure of our genes,
a binary language
whispers beneath it all.
By calculating the time,
date, and place of your birth,
you'll discover your
hologenetic profile,
a snapshot of the
cosmic clock the moment
you took your first breath.
This is your personal
imprint, a sacred invitation
to unlock your Gene Keys,
not to fix yourself,
but to remember
who you truly are.
Hello, and a warm welcome
to this 10-part series about
the Gene Keys.
My name is Richard Rudd, and I'm
the founder of the Gene Keys.
The Gene Keys are
a series of tools
for personal and
planetary transformation,
and their purpose is to change
our life from the inside
out so that we're living
at the absolute zenith
of our potential.
And most of us are
already doing the best
we can to live our best lives.
And nowadays, there are so
many tools and teachings
that can help us, and I know it
can feel a bit like a minefield
out there.
And for many of
us, it's hard just
to find the time for it all.
So I want to be entirely
honest with you,
right from the very
beginning of this journey.
The Gene Keys isn't
another quick fix.
This isn't about
sticking a band-aid
on a problem in
your life, and then
another band-aid
on another problem.
It's like when you take
your car to the mechanic,
you just want them to fix
the car so it runs better.
You want to save time and money
and you want it done fast.
But if we apply that
kind of philosophy
to our body and
our relationships
and our health or
our finances, it's
not going to work for very
long because we'll just
be patching up a car that
sooner or later it's just
going to break down
permanently, or at best,
it's going to limp
along and keep having
to go back to the garage.
So Gene Keys is
different from that.
If you want to live
your best life,
you can't just keep patching
it up and hoping for the best.
Remember when you were a young
child and your inner engine
was brand new and you were
just filled with light.
Your heart and your
mind were truly open.
Your health was radiant,
and you shone with a kind
of innocent, pure wisdom.
Well, that's what the
Gene Keys can do for you.
They can give you
some of that back.
So when you bring your
life to this garage,
we don't just patch you up.
We do a whole engine
rebuild from the bottom up.
We clean, we repair, we polish
every part of your inner being,
and then we put it all
back together again.
And you emerge with
this sparkling life
with an engine that's
just powering in harmony.
So you're glowing with health.
Your relationships are
flowing and fulfilling
and you feel great.
I'll be your guide, but we're
going to do this together
because to heal a whole
life, it's just not
realistic to think that
you can do it that quickly,
or that you can leave it
in someone else's hands,
no matter how much of an
expert they are in their field.
So over the next
10 episodes, I'm
going to take you right into
the heart of the matrix of you.
So let's get started.
This is your personalized
Gene Keys profile.
And if you haven't
got yours yet,
I invite you to pause here
so that you can download it.
And you'll find
it on genekeys.com
under the free profile.
So hopefully now you have
your Gene Keys profile
sitting in front of you.
Take a deep breath
and look at it,
because these are the
blueprints of your inner life.
This is an incredible
map, and you'll
be amazed at where
it can take you.
And this is what
we're going to spend
our time exploring together.
If you want to
understand the world,
consider it in terms of energy,
frequency, and vibration.
This is a powerful
quote from Nikola Tesla.
And the Gene Keys
are a system based
on the science of
frequency and the idea
that the universe, or
consciousness itself,
is a living, rippling
field made up
of infinite layers and levels
of frequency and vibration.
And these can be sound
frequencies, light frequencies,
or emotional, mental,
and physical frequencies.
And they all exist as a
vast, multi-layered tapestry
of reality.
And a huge number of
people on this planet
are functioning at a fairly
low frequency compared
to their true genetic potential.
And this creates a huge
drag on our species.
And it's why sometimes it
feels so tough to live here,
because together, all we
humans create the frequency
field that we live in.
So take a look at
your life right
now, and tune in to
what level of frequency
you're currently living at.
And be honest with yourself.
At low frequencies,
we get entangled
with our unfulfilled
desires, and we often
feel a deep sense of unease
and a general lack of purpose.
But wherever you're
at right now,
you'll find that working
with your Gene Keys
is going to raise your
frequency and improve
every area of your life.
Because as your
frequency goes up,
you'll find that it's much
easier to live in this world,
and you won't be so
weighed down by everything
that's going on around you.
So let's talk a little bit
about DNA, our genetics,
because the Gene Keys are
based on the same universal
mathematical code as DNA.
And our DNA is amazing.
It's beyond amazing when
you really think about it.
And we're learning
new things constantly
every day about our DNA.
If you took all the
DNA in your body,
all those coiled and
crimped, twisted strands
of phosphate crystals from every
one of the trillions of cells
in your body, and if you
unraveled all that DNA
and you stretched
it out in a line,
do you have any idea
how long that would be?
10 billion miles long.
Can you imagine that?
And we also know
that DNA is designed
as an open system
that's completely
adaptable and programmable.
It's known as neuroplasticity.
So it's like this huge
sponge that's constantly
listening and
receiving frequencies
and nuances of instructions
from the environment.
It hears our thoughts.
So think about this.
All those billions of
miles of DNA inside you
hears everything you
say, everything you think
and everything you feel.
And it interprets all
of that as instructions.
So your inner life is
absolutely programming your DNA
all the time.
Think about this.
You're having a bad day.
You just had an argument with
your partner or your friend,
and you're feeling rotten about
some of the things you said,
and you're pissed off with
some of the things they said.
And your mind is in a spin.
It's going round and round in
one of those victim whirls.
Well, he shouldn't
have lied to me
or she didn't listen to my
feelings, blah, blah, blah.
That loop in your
mind that you're in
is programming your
DNA, and your DNA
is innocently sending
those instructions
to your endocrine system.
And your endocrine
system is innocently
trying to protect you by
releasing certain hormones
and chemicals that
are basically feeding
your stressful state even more.
And the thing you
want most, which
is just for it to stop so
that you can feel good again,
it's the very thing that
your mindset is preventing.
So we really can be
our worst enemies.
But we can also be
our best friends.
And this is where the
Gene Keys comes in,
because the language of
the Gene Keys is so precise
and it's so profound that it
speaks directly to our DNA.
And so we can
start reprogramming
these old,
self-defeating patterns.
And over time, this can
have a huge impact on us.
And it can bring about a major
transformation in our lives.
It means that the way
we think about things
determines the kind
of person we become,
and what our life will
look like in the future.
So we truly are the architects
of our own evolution.
So what is a Gene Key?
Well, it's like an
algorithm of awakening.
It contains a
string of language,
a code that when you apply it to
the real problems in your life,
it's like holding up a mirror.
First of all, that's pretty
terrifying because your Gene
Keys reflect your behavior
back to you, warts and all.
So the first thing
you're going to see,
and you're going to see
it with crystal clarity,
is your own low frequency
behavior patterns.
And this is not at your best--
far from it.
In the Gene Keys, we
call this the shadow.
It's a term inspired
by Carl Jung.
And your shadow is always
represented by a single word.
And this word represents the
low frequency of the Gene Key.
So here's a table of
all the low frequency
human behavior patterns
mapped by the Gene Keys.
And it's not a particularly
pretty sight, is it?
This is what's causing all
the problems on our planet.
But here's the cool part.
This is the good news, that
every one of these 64 shadows
contains a gift.
So every single pattern of
low frequency human behavior
contains the seed of a high
frequency behavior pattern.
And we call these the gifts.
And we all come into the
world with a series of gifts.
And they're there
when we're born.
But so often our gifts
are undernourished
because of our upbringing or our
education systems, or the trauma
that we may have
suffered as a child
from coming into a world riddled
with all these shadow patterns.
And if they're not given
the space to flourish,
by the time most of us
get to our adulthood,
our gifts are mostly forgotten.
So this is the primary
mission of the Gene Keys.
It's to help us bring our gifts
back to life and to unlock
our genius.
And when we rediscover
our innate gifts,
a huge creativity
emerges through us
and a sense of optimism,
a can-do mentality.
And this is what we
call the gift frequency.
So here's an example.
And you can follow along and
look at your own profile.
Gene key 18.
This is the shadow of judgment.
And this can be self-judgment,
like I'm not good enough
or it can be projected judgment,
like you're not good enough.
And there's a whole
story in these Gene Keys,
but this shadow also
contains a gift.
And that gift is integrity.
So when we raise the
frequency of judgment,
it reveals a higher
evolutionary programming.
Perhaps you can feel how the two
notes of the octave are at work.
At the shadow frequency,
the energy of judgment
is self-defeating, while on
the higher frequency, the gift,
it can be better used
for personal betterment.
So as the shadow
becomes the gift,
judgment then starts
to serve us positively
in the form of integrity.
And then it's used
in a creative way
rather than in a
destructive way.
So you can start now looking
at your own Gene Keys,
and you can see this at
work in your own life.
And we'll be exploring
this in some depth.
So every Gene Key has
a shadow and a gift.
But there's also one
more level, and this
is the essence of that key.
So when I was conceiving
the Gene Keys, this spectrum
of consciousness, I couldn't
find a single good word
in English, anyway, that
represented the highest
aspect of our programming.
And I'm a linguist.
So I had to go across
to another language,
and I borrowed a
term from Sanskrit,
from the ancient teachings
of the Vedas of India.
And the word is siddhi, siddhi.
And it means more or less
divine manifestation.
So you're going to hear
me speak this word quite
a lot in this series, and I
don't want you to be confused.
Also, in the USA, people often
think I'm saying the word city,
as in city.
So I'm not saying that.
I'm saying siddhi, siddhi.
It has an H in it for
the highest frequency.
So in the case of this 18th Gene
Key, the shadow is judgment,
the gift is integrity, and
the siddhi is perfection.
And here the shadow of
judgment serves the gift
of integrity, which
in turn uplifts
the judgment into service.
And perfection, the
siddhi, is a divine state.
It's an expression
of our DNA that
allows us to access directly the
unified field of consciousness.
And when we experience this
coding at its highest frequency,
we have a direct
revelation of perfection.
In other words, we
realize the perfection
of all beings at
every single level.
So at the highest
level, even the shadow
is seen as a part
of the perfection.
Now, for many
people, these siddhis
they can seem a long way off.
They may even seem like fantasy.
But these stages
of consciousness
have always existed, and
many have experienced them
and continue to do so, whether
that's through deep meditation,
through ongoing
spiritual practices,
or Indigenous plant medicines.
The revelation of the Gene Keys
is something totally unique,
something that may not exist
anywhere else because it's
a map of what your life could
look like with you living
at your very highest frequency.
So it's a map of the
enlightened version of you.
So this is the foundational
language of the Gene Keys.
And over the course
of this series,
we're going to see how
we can use these 64
algorithms of awakening
to reshape and transform
our reality.
Because this work
touches everything--
our relationships, our working
life, our health, our purpose,
every single aspect
of our lives.
Let's dive into your profile.
And I'll explain how it works as
we go along through the series.
But the first step
we're going to take
is to look at the
sphere at the top.
And you'll see that this
is called your life's work.
So this Gene Key is imprinted
from the position of the sun
when you were born.
Your life's work represents
the light of your unique genius
as you express it in the world.
So it's a quality,
it's a brightness,
it's a confidence, a grace
even that you bring to whatever
you do in this life.
So take a look at your
gift and your siddhis,
and begin your
exploration of these two
expressions of your light.
Sometimes the Gene Keys
words are a bit mysterious,
but you can click on your sphere
to learn a little bit more
about this Gene Key.
Or you can listen to
the audio I recorded
exploring your Gene Key, or you
can read about it in the book.
Above all though,
these are words
that you can hold in
your heart because they
represent a creative
explosion in your life.
And then take a look as well at
the shadow word for this Gene
Key in your life's work.
This is the pattern that
undermines your life's highest
expression.
And remember, these
are not easy words,
and they're also collective
terms for whole frequency fields
that we can get caught in.
This shadow might be something
that comes from within you,
or it might be something that
you attract from the outside,
but it's probably a
combination of both.
Let's take an example.
Maybe you have Gene 42.
This is the shadow
of expectation.
And we know that
with expectation
always comes disappointment.
So a lot of disappointment
will follow this shadow,
and it will very likely creep
into your relationships.
And it may undermine
your health.
And you may attract it into your
life in lots of mysterious ways.
And if you look at the
siddhi, celebration,
you'll really understand this.
So expectation prevents you
from celebrating your life.
It keeps you at a low frequency.
And we often don't realize
how deeply we're conditioned
by the shadow frequency.
So I invite you to reflect
on your life, your past,
and the decisions
you've made, and see
if you can see this
shadow frequency
and how it may have
impacted your life.
Because the moment
we see our shadow,
that is the moment that the
sun breaks through the clouds.
And we just have to stop
feeding these shadow tendencies
in our lives.
Every shadow is a victim state.
It has us believe that someone
or something outside us
is disempowering us.
And if you want
to stay a victim,
you have to blame something
or someone outside yourself.
And this is why we first
have to see the shadow,
and then we engage the gift.
Here's the profile
of the Dalai Lama.
His life's work is Gene Key 39.
So the Dalai Lama has the
shadow of provocation,
the gift of dynamism, and
the siddhi of liberation.
In a way, you could look
at this amazing man's life
and you could say, well,
this is a man that's
been deeply provoked in so many
different and negative ways.
His people were
constantly persecuted.
As the spiritual
leader of the Tibetans,
he's had to endure
being physically
exiled from his homeland.
And you can imagine how much
he's worried about his people.
He's been really pushed through
this Gene Key 39 of provocation,
but he hasn't allowed this
shadow to drag him down.
He's managed to
actually transform
of that into a dynamic,
creative mission in the world.
He's even turned the
provocation into a gift.
This is the gift of dynamism.
Constantly traveling
all over the world,
endlessly sharing his
love and his wisdom
and writing books and
delivering teachings
and really being
a true embodiment
of his highest essence, which
is the siddhi of liberation.
So all that provocation is
actually an untransformed state
of liberation.
But through his
life, he's taken it
to the highest, most
transcendent capacity.
So can you look at your
Gene Keys in this way?
Can you unlock your
highest life's work?
Try and look at your shadows
as the untransformed highest
essence of your soul.
This is a pretty
radical teaching.
This is going to be our
journey throughout this series,
and I'm going to do my utmost
to show you how awesome you are.
You're a divine being of
massive unrealized potential,
and we're going to unlock
some of that potential.
So please don't worry if
you don't fully understand
your own Gene Keys yet.
We are just at the beginning
of a very rich journey.
I'm going to close this first
episode by introducing you
to the central technique
that makes the Gene Keys
work, contemplation.
It's a powerful,
informal practice
that when you understand it, it
can utterly transform your life.
It's a timeless art,
and anyone can do it
at any age in their lives.
You can do it sitting, standing,
walking, talking, swimming,
or while you're having
a nice cup of tea.
So it's much easier
than meditation,
and it's more creative and
playful than mindfulness.
And the key to it is pausing.
And it has several
layers and levels,
which I'll reveal as we
go deeper into the series,
but at the beginning,
it's simply
about learning how to
pause regularly in your day
and create the space so that
your inner journey has more room
to unfold.
And without these
pauses, the insights
and the wisdom of the Gene
Keys won't reveal themselves.
So contemplation is the
key that unlocks wisdom.
And can you think of a
more valuable thing in life
than that?
If you know how to unlock
wisdom, the world is yours.
And it's important to
understand the difference here
between knowledge and wisdom.
Knowledge is something that
we acquire from outside
through our eyes and our ears.
We learn it.
We memorize it.
We grow from it.
But wisdom is
completely the opposite.
Wisdom is already inside us.
It's in our very DNA.
And the Gene Keys
are wisdom teaching.
There is a little knowledge,
but essentially they
are a science of epiphanies.
Epiphany, insight,
revelation, these
are the words that allow
us to access wisdom,
and wisdom requires a higher
frequency field than knowledge.
It's beyond the intellect.
It requires an open
heart and an open mind.
So as you learn to
pause more, and as you
learn to contemplate
the language of the Gene
Keys and your profile, be
prepared for surprises,
for insights, for aha
moments, for breakthroughs,
epiphanies as the wisdom that's
inside you detonates within you.
When I was a boy, one of the
legends that I loved most
was the legend of King Arthur
and the Sword in the Stone.
And it's a fitting emblem, in
a way, for your life's work.
Because just as King
Arthur, the young boy king,
was the only one that could
draw the sword out of the stone,
you are the only one
that can draw out
your genius from the shadow.
And the stone is the
dense, lower frequency
that's hidden in your DNA.
And through a process
of contemplation,
you're going to draw out
your genius, your sword,
and you're going to fulfill
your highest destiny.
In the next episode, we're
going to be doing the activation
sequence, which is the first
of the Gene Keys sequences.
And we're going to be learning
what our shadows really are
and how we can transform them
so that we can unlock our four
prime gifts.
And we'll also be taking a
look at my Gene Keys profile
and how I managed to
transform the greatest
challenge in my life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]